Hey, I am writing some instructions on how you have to use and navigate for the project

1. Clone the project      (Jump to instruction 4)
2. If already cloned, before you start working, use the git pull command (need wifi connection for same)

3. Once pulled/clone go to powershell (windows terminal) and check if venv is activated. If it is then start working
4. Create virtual environment using  "python -m venv venv"
5. Activate virutal environment using  "venv\Scripts\activate"



How and what to do for work?

Right now we are on the database designing phase.
Step 2 will be using python, flask and connector to make backend and frontend and make them communicate

1. We are going to make our database in src\01_schema.sql
2. How to run and see the program:
    i. Open your MySQL workbench
    ii. Click on create local instance and put your password
    iii. Click on file dropdown and select open SQL script 
    iv. Click the lightning button to execute the SQL commands
    v. But in 01_schema.sql we are only making the structure/architecture hence there are supposed to be no "select" commands
    vi. Open SQL script of 02_debug.sql. In this file we can write any command we want to execute to check our structure correctness or output for our schema file
    vii. Make sure to properly add comments the way I have done to help others catch up very easily. Make sure to use simple english words (my english is weak)


How to upload your work?
    Once you are done, do the following
    1. Use git pull command again. If its successful go to step 5
    2. If merge conflicts appear, click on resolve merge conflicts
    3. If 2 people have done same work, just remove the less useful Once
    4. If 2 people have done different work, just shift the code segment up or dropdown
    5. If you want to stage all files do "git add ."
    6. If you want to stage particular files only, replace "." with the filenames seperated by space
    7. Write a msg to the team about the work you have done using "git commit -m "msgforteam""
    8. Push your work using "git push"

Will update once we are done with making our database.

All the best.



Update 2: For the people who have done the work up till now, here's the next tasks:

1. Set up SQL workbench local host
2. Click 'file' at top left corner and open all 4 files in sql_files one by once
3. Run schema file (fix if it gives any error) 

Task 1: Try adding some lines of data in the tables already existing. This will be done in the 03_sample_data file. I want everyone to extend the inserted data a bit.
Everyone should have equal contribution at every step. For reference, i have added a tiny bit of data in 3-4 tables. This data is
solely to check how our schema works and will also help spot any errors. 

IMPORTANT: Be careful while inserting data, if you are adding a value in a table X which references value from table Y then you 
would have to first put a value in table Y corresponding to it. And be careful of the constraints too.

Now, to check if your inserted data is error free, simply run a few basic commands related to it and its table in 02_debug.sql file
Again, i have put some commands there for reference of how i validated my inserted data. You can fuck around find out even more stuff

Task 2: This is a tiny bit complicated so please follow the instructions in correct sequence, I have intentionally chosen this 
sequence thinking it'll be beneficial

Bohot zyada hai mai nahi likh raha. Meet pe bata dunga 






